# Algorithm Design Paradigm

Python scripts related to different algorithm design paradigms.

1. [Divide and conquer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Divide_and_conquer_algorithm): based on multi-branched recursion. A divide and conquer algorithm works by recursively breaking down a problem into two or more sub-problems of the same or related type, until these become simple enough to be solved directly. The solutions to the sub-problems are then combined to give a solution to the original problem.
2. [Greedy algorithms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greedy_algorithm): follows the problem solving heuristic of making the locally optimal choice at each stage with the hope of finding a global optimum. In many problems, a greedy strategy does not in general produce an optimal solution, but nonetheless a greedy heuristic may yield locally optimal solutions that approximate a global optimal solution in a reasonable time.
3. [Dynamic programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_programming): method for solving a complex problem by breaking it down into a collection of simpler subproblems, solving each of those subproblems just once, and storing their solutions. The next time the same subproblem occurs, instead of recomputing its solution, one simply looks up the previously computed solution, thereby saving computation time at the expense of (it is hoped) a modest expenditure in storage space. 
4. [Backtracking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backtracking): general algorithm for finding all (or some) solutions to some computational problems, notably constraint satisfaction problems, that incrementally builds candidates to the solutions, and abandons a candidate ("backtracks") as soon as it determines that the candidate cannot possibly be completed to a valid solution.